---
title: Do I need multiple CodeStream teams?
description:
---

Depending on how many developers there are, and how they are organized, your
company/organization may have more than one team on CodeStream. A good analogy
is your #development channel on Slack. A small company probably starts with a
single channel where all development communication happens, but as the company
grows and the number of developers grow, conversations start to move from the
single development channel to more narrowly focused channels (e.g., #backend,
#mobile, etc.). And of course, some developers are in more than one, or even all
of those channels.

You can think of a CodeStream team the same way. While not every codemark or
code review flowing through the activity feed needs to be relevant to every
developer on the team, generally speaking the feed should be filled with
discussions that most people on the team are able to contribute to in some
fashion. If the developers on your CodeStream team aren’t happy with the
signal-to-noise ratio in their activity feed, you can start to think about
creating additional, more narrowly focused, teams. 

A good way to think of a CodeStream team is as the set of people that work on,
work with, or have some level of expertise in a shared set of repositories. And
note that developers can be on more than one team. Say your organization has
Frontend and Backend development teams that are large enough that they warrant
their own CodeStream teams. Frontend developers can still be added to the
Backend team, and vice versa, so that they can help answer questions. But,
they’ll have their own teams so that their activity feeds contain codemarks that
are more relevant to them. Even if they never really switch to the other team
when in CodeStream, they’ll still get email notifications for the other team’s
codemarks if they’re @mentioned.

To create an additional CodeStream team, just look for the “Create New Team”
menu option.

![Create New Team](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TeamCodeStream/CodeStream/master/images/CreateNewTeam.png)

When creating a new team you'll also be able to specify which
organization/company it belongs to. If you're creating a team for a side
project, not related to your work, you'll probably want to specify a new
organization for the team.