---
title: Activity Feed
description: 
---

The activity feed is the definitive place to find out about new comments, issues
and feedback requests posted by your teammates, or new replies to existing
discussions. When you’re not on the activity feed, you can always tell whether
or not there’s anything new by looking for a badge on the Activity Feed icon. A
blue badge with a white dot means that there are new discussions or replies, and
a blue badge with a number inside means that there are new discussions or
replies where you’ve been mentioned (with the number indicating the number of
mentions).

![Activity Feed Badge](../assets/images/ActivityFeedWithBadge2.png)

Note that CodeStream’s entry in your IDE’s status bar also let’s you know when
there are new messages in the feed. A dot to the right of your username means
there are new messages, and a number means there are new mentions.

![Status Bar](../assets/images/StatusBarWithMentions2.png)

A filter at the top of the activity feed allows you to determine what you'll see
in the feed.

* Activity from everyone in my organization - This option allows you to see all
  activity from your organization, and should only be used in very small
  organizations.
* Activity associated with code open in my IDE (default) - You'll only see
  discussions related to code in the repositories you have open in your IDE,
  although you'll always see posts where you're @mentioned even if it's
  associated with code from other repositories.
* Activity associated with code in selected folder - This option is geared
  towards those of you working with monorepos. You'll only see discussions
  related to code in the selected folder, although you'll always see posts
  where you're @mentioned even if it's associated with code from other
  folders.

FIXME
![Activity Feed Filters](../assets/images/StatusBarWithMentions2.png)

As you might expect, new stuff gets added to the top of the feed, even if it’s a
new reply to a very old discussion. CodeStream makes it even easier to identify
what’s new by adding a blue border on the left side. For example, here’s a new
comment at the top of the feed.

![New Comment in Feed](../assets/images/ActivityFeed-NewCodemark.png)

And here is a new reply to a comment. The fact that only the replies have the
blue border means that you’ve previously seen the comment itself.

![New Replies in Feed](../assets/images/ActivityFeed-NewOldReplies.png)

Also note the “See 1 earlier reply”. That means that there's an earlier reply
that you’ve already seen. Only new, unread replies are displayed in the main
activity feed view, but you can click on that link to see the full discussion
thread and add a new reply of your own.

![Expanded Comment](../assets/images/CodemarkViewWithReplies1.png)

The activity feed goes all the way back to the beginning of time for your team,
but if you’re looking for specific older codemarks you might be better off going
to [Filter & Search](filter-and-search).

